antfarm-plugins(1) -- plugins for the ANTFARM passive network mapping tool
==========================================================================

## DESCRIPTION

ANTFARM (Advanced Network Toolkit For Assessments and Remote Mapping) is a
passive network mapping application that utilizes output from existing network
examination tools to populate its OSI-modeled database. This data can then be
used to form a ‘picture’ of the network being analyzed.

ANTFARM plugins provide an easy way to extend the parsing and outputting of
data into and out of ANTFARM. Currently available plugins are described below.

## PLUGINS

load-host:

Given a file that contains a list of IP addresses, one per line, this plugin
simply creates an IpInterface model for each address provided.

  * `--input-file` <file>:
    The location of the file containing the IP addresses

load-network:

Given a file that contains a list of IP networks, one per line, this plugin
simply creates and IpNetwork model for each network address provided.

  * `--input-file` <file>:
    The location of the file containing the IP network addresses

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright (2008-2010) Sandia Corporation. Under the terms of Contract
DE-AC04-94AL85000 with Sandia Corporation, the U.S. Government retains certain
rights in this software.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License along
with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59
Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA.
